the core actions of the system are

search
select
gather
edit
send
automate

content in chunks, whether preview or full content, has a titlebar,
toolbar, central content/preview, and a status bar with tags and a button
for sharing/workflow.

the share button is just a way of launching workflows


everything sharable has a common color and shape.
items which are draggable that become shareable transform their color/shape

the OS has three master colors, fg and bg and accent, used for rendering all components.

side components have less contrast and are darker than central components. these
are derived from the master colors.

borders are *only* used where two things can move in relation to each-other, generally
indicating two layers (ex: toolbar over scrolling list)


the accent color is used to derive the active, selected, and focused colors.

selection is indicated with fg and bg color changes.
focused is indicated with a focus ring
complex components have a focus ring only around the big component, not the sub components.

editable things have slightly rounded corners?

all content is in chunks
chunks have panel views when viewed en mass, either as preview or the content.
chunks are in traditional editors when edited.
in both cases there is a title for the chunk on top, the preview/content,
tags and status on the bottom.

tags are rounded pills
all search boxes are rounded pills
buttons which trigger stateful actions should be a specially bright form of the accent color.
(slightly glowing or animated?)

common commands for searching, always goes to the inner most searchable component from the focus.

the master colors are changed for themes and may change during they day:

morning is pale-light with blue and green elements, medium contrast
noon is light with blue and green elements, high contrast
twilight is light with orange and red elements, medium contrast
night is dark with subdued red and orange elements, low contrast



everything is done by searching for structure of data chunks, or for added tags.
they may be searched interchangeably.  an arduino sketch can be tagged. a tweet.
a note in your todo list. a word doc. an mp3. these tags are global, or may be
restricted to the current workspace.  There are only these two levels of tags
rather than trying to encompass a full heirarchy. If you need more control then
there is a tag editor for more complex management of your entire system.

every window may have a preferred view and a structured view. ex: twitter client.
you normally live in the preferred view which shows you the tweets as entire chunks
with nice content previews, bio pics, etc.  in the structured view it is more like
an itunes table where you see the tweet text, attachments, user, hashtags, and time as
separate columns.  This is still not the true structure of the object, but rather
an optimized view created by a tweet optimizer class which exposes only the useful
parts. a fully exploded view could be seen by sending an object or a query to the
data explorer, which gives you a full tree table view of everything.


supported controls
various buttons
single selection (a form of button) (multi-select is evil. do not use it. use a list)
various forms of text fields, some with popups (color, date, etc.)
tabbar: a special list of buttons
slider
table, with variants
list/tree, with variants
various indicators (progress bar, meters, levels, labels)
textarea, treated as a large text field. same color and effects
panels
modal dialogs (used sparingly)

boxes:
hbox
vbox

have control over alignment with align-center, align-baseline, align-stretch, etc.
have control over sizing with manual sizing, using defaults, or 'grow'
toolbar is a prefab form of hbox with some color changes
sidebar is a prefab form of vbox with some color changes
statusbar is a prefab form of hbox with some color and font changes

there is no tree, do it with nested lists
there is no treetable, do it with nested lists with custom positioning.

almost anything can be turned into a vbox or hbox for layout purposes. ex: a list
item can be an hbox to align it's sub contents easily.

vbox-wrap and hbox-wrap are special forms with content wrapping, ex: iphoto
photos view.

stackbox positions all children to fill the box, and be on top of each other.
generally used for something like tab panes where you will flip between pages
of content. generally you shouldn't use this. instead you should be swapping
content directly with something like flex.

div.grid gives everything the same size?


form controls are usually inside of div.toolbar or div.form. form is a light grid
layout with rows.

controls can be put into special groupings with the div.group


complex apps
things with sidebars should have a collapse button in the footer below the sidebar.
bottom and top sidebars should never be used, only on the sides. vertical space is already
at a premium.



spacing can be tight or loose as determined by the parent div with .tight and .loose
width sizing can be done with ems and min-width or, quickly with short, medium, long. medium is the
default. or just size it in ems or rems.
font size should almost never be changed. do it manually with css.


special styles:
no-bg gets rid of borders and backgrounds, but still leaves a bg hover effect and selection effect.
lined and zebra for lists and tables
use font-awesome for all icons

tabbar, toolbar, titlebar, header and footer are hboxes with extra styles
sidebar is vbox with extra styles

strategy to build it:

reset everything
define the basic layout styles: vbox, hbox, alignments, fill, grow
    (can fill work on parent instead of fixed?)
start with master colors:  bg,fg,ac
set bg and fg for main panel
add buttons
add titlebar, header, footer
add lists and tables with standard styles

now add all of the various controls
    button, input[type='button'], input[type='checkbox'].button input[type='submit'], reset
now implement focused, selected, etc.
add popups and dropdowns
